Method


Design of study and setting
The present study was a controlled randomized controlled trial that was conducted from October 2020 to May 2021. The research setting was the comprehensive health centers of Zanjan a city in the northwest of Iran. Zanjan city has 35 health centers. Ten health centers were selected randomly. The research population included pregnant women with NVP who registered in the mentioned health centers. For enrolment of eligible women, the phone number of pregnant women obtained through a national electronic identification system (CIB), if there are no eligible people, or did not want to participate in the study, or did not answer the phone number after two calls the selected number is removed and the next number replaced.

Participants
Inclusion criteria included a Rhode's score of mild to moderate nausea and vomiting severity, gestational age of 6-10 weeks, the chronological age of 18-35 years, Literate, having a contact phone number, and a wanted pregnancy; the exclusion criteria before random assignment of groups comprised pregnancy complications, gastrointestinal disease, the experience of traumatic, and stressful events during the last 3 months.
We do not access a similar study showing the effectiveness of positive psychology counseling on coping with pregnancy among women with NVP. The sample size was calculated at 4 people based on the study conducted by Mostafaei et al. in 2019 [14]. The calculated sample size was very small. Therefore, the sample size was calculated by a pilot study (9 people in the intervention group, 11 people in the control group). With considering the 95% confidence level (Z1-α = 1.96), the test power of 80% (Z1-β = 0.85) and based on coping variable with the mean and standard deviation in the intervention group (M 1 = 4.87and S 1 = 2.69) and control (M 2 = 3.11 and S 2 = 1.96) and using the formula for calculating the sample size in two independent groups, the total sample size was calculated to be 27. Taking into account the 10% drop in the sample, the final sample size was 30 participants in each group.

Sampling method
Among 150 pregnant women evaluated by the researcher, sixty women met the eligible criteria, and ninety people have excluded from the study. All participants were allocated to intervention and control groups using a randomized four-block method. For this reason, two allocations to the intervention group (AA) and two allocations to the control group (BB) were considered in four blocks, resulting in a total of six modes. The sample size was chosen from the created four-block table of random numbers to reach 60 persons. The created random sequences were recorded on the card, and the cards were placed in the letter envelopes in the correct order. To establish a random sequence, the envelopes were all numbered the same way on the outside. Finally, the letter envelope lids were glued together and arranged in a box, respectively. As soon as the eligible participants entered the study, one of the envelopes was opened in order, revealing the participant's allocated group (See Fig. 1 the process of sampling presented).

Intervention
The intervention group received supportive counselling individually in 6 sessions (45-60 min each), based on the positive psychology protocol developed by Tayyab Rashid and Martin Seligman [15]. Meetings were held three times a week. The counseling sessions were conducted by the first author who had passed a course on positive psychology counseling in a private clinic in Tehran. Then, a positive psychology content program was developed by the researchers. Counselling was held individually in a place with adequate space to observe social distance and other health protocols to prevent Covid-19 diseases such as proper air conditioning, disinfection surfaces with alcohol, and face mask. There was no attrition in the study and after the interventions. Table 1 shows the content of the consultation sessions separately.
After getting to know the client, the counsellor and client's roles, goals, session schedule, and how to complete the questionnaires were all explained in the first session. According to the Ministry of Health of Iran's protocol, the educational content provided to pregnant mothers in the first trimester of pregnancy routinely includes education on pregnancy changes, personal hygiene, and nutrition. In addition to routine training in nausea and vomiting physiology, the present study introduced positive psychology and discussed 24 competencies/capabilities related to positive behaviour. The following sessions were designed to help mothers alleviate pregnancy-related nausea and vomiting symptoms while also strengthening their mental skills. At the end of each session, homework was assigned. The control group only received routine care.

Outcomes
The current study had a four-week follow-up period, and the study outcome consisted of examining the pattern of coping with pregnancy that the participants completed immediately before the intervention and four weeks after the end of counselling sessions.

Data collection tools
The data in this study were collected using the Rhodes nausea and vomiting severity scale, the demographics questionnaire, and the pregnancy adjustment questionnaire.

Demographic and midwifery questionnaire
The questionnaire included: age, education, number of previous pregnancies, monthly household income and type of homeownership.

Coping with pregnancy pattern
Hamilton and Lobe (2008) developed a pregnancy adaptation questionnaire to assess women's coping strategies when facing pregnancy challenges. This questionnaire contains three subscales: 1. preparation and planning (14 questions), 2. avoidance (7 questions), and 3. positive-spiritual coping (5 questions). Cronbach's alpha for the readiness-planning subscale in the early, mid, and late stages of the first pregnancy is 0.82, 0.85, and 0.86, respectively, whereas the avoidance subscale is 0.77 to 0.80 and the positive spiritual subscale is 0.73 to 0.78 in all trimesters [8]. The Persian version of this questionnaire was psychometrically assessed in 2018 by Shobiri et al., and spiritual compatibility and avoidance compatibility was confirmed in the analysis of confirmatory factors with 26 items in three areas of planning and preparation, spiritual compatibility, and avoidance compatibility. Cronbach's alpha calculated the instrument's reliability to be 0.92 [7,16]. The weighted average of the scores in each domain was calculated to determine the adaptation patterns of women; women with a higher mean in each area tend to cope with stressful situations more effectively, and no cut-off point is specified in this questionnaire.

Rhode's nausea and vomiting severity index scale
This questionnaire is intended to assess the amount of nausea, vomiting, and gagging experienced in the previous 12 h. There are eight questions on this tool with 5 Likert scores ranging from 0 to 4. A higher score indicates more severe nausea, vomiting, and gagging. The severity of vomiting nausea is determined by a grading scale; a score of 3-8 signifies mild severity; a score of 9-16 indicates moderate severity; a score of 24-17 indicates severe severity; while a score of 32-34 denotes extreme severity. The validity and reliability of the questionnaire both in the foreign study and in Nurane et al. 's Persian version have been confirmed with a Cronbach's alpha coefficient of 0.89 [17,18].

Data analysis and statistic tests
SPSS 16 was used to analyze the information. The Kolmogorov-Smirnov test revealed that the data were normally distributed. We compared qualitative variables by using Chi-square tests and independent t-tests for quantitative variables. The effect of time, group, and interaction between group and time evaluated using repeated measure ANOVA test and MAVOVA test with controlling the number of pregnancies. Effect size<0.3 indicates a  small  effect. The level of signifcance was (P>0.05). 

