Methods


Participants and recruitment
In 2009 and 2010, medical and psychology students in their second or third term at the University of Oslo and the University of Tromsø respectively, were invited to participate in the study. Information was provided during classes by the study project managers followed by an email inviting people to visit a website for more information and the opportunity to sign up for the study. Informed consent was obtained electronically after which the participants completed an online questionnaire (T1). Because the programme purpose was health promotion and stress management rather than psychotherapy, no exclusion criteria were used and the students were not screened for mental illness. The sample size was calculated based on an expected reduction in mental distress and perceived medical school stress of 20% in the intervention group, and on longitudinal studies of how stress and mental health problems increase during university programmes among Norwegian medical students [25,26]. 60-100 participants per study group were needed for the power calculation (alpha level .05, 80% power) to test whether the intervention could prevent such increases. The study protocol is available at www.clinicaltrials.gov [27], where further details on sample calculation can be found.

Procedures
After the participants completed the T1 questionnaire, a computer program (a Java-based random number generator) was used to randomly assign students either to the intervention group or to the control group. The randomisation was performed separately for each class of students without stratification by gender. An email message sent two weeks prior to the intervention informed the study participants of their group allocation. Within the two weeks after the intervention, participants were asked to complete a second questionnaire (T2) and they received up to three email reminders to prompt them to do so. The head technician at the Norwegian Knowledge Centre for the Health Services assigned each participant an identity (ID) number which was then assigned to their online questionnaires to ensure that the data remained anonymous. Only the head technician had access to data that showed the link between the student identities and the ID numbers, and he was not involved in the study in any other way.
To compensate study participants for using approximately 40 minutes to complete the T1 and T2 questionnaires each time and to reduce potential drop-out rates, those students who took part in the study received a book voucher after they had completed the T2 questionnaire. The study was approved by the Regional Committee for Medical and Health Research Ethics in Norway, and by the Norwegian Data Inspectorate.

Description of the intervention
The MBSR programmebased on the programme developed by Kabat-Zinn [28] was conducted independently of the students' study curricula and lasted seven weeks. The original programme consisted of eight weekly sessions of 2.5 hours each, a 7-hour session that took place between week six and seven and 45 minutes of formal mindfulness practice at home. However, information obtained from the focus group interviews with students prior to the study led to the programme being reduced to six weekly sessions of 1.5 hours each, a 6-hour session in week seven, and 30 minutes of daily home mindfulness practice. Apart from these changes, the intervention was equivalent to the original MBSR programme.
The MBSR programme used in this study consisted of: 1) physical and mental exercises to increase participant mindfulness of experiences in the present moment, 2) didactic teaching on mindfulness, stress, stress management and mindful communication, using a course manual and CDs for home practice, and 3) a group process to facilitate reflections on practising mindfulness both at home and during classes. The instructors focused on creating an open, curious, non-judgemental and accepting attitude towards all participant experiences. The course manual used in this study is available on request.

Instructor qualifications and compliance with the MBSR manual
The instructors (three men and three women) were trained in conducting MBSR courses and had practiced mindfulness for many years. Both project managers received their instructor training provided by the Center for Mindfulness in Massachussets, USA, and were in agreement regarding the content and format of the MBSR course manual. When running the first course they also consulted each other after every class to ensure programme fidelity.

Measures
In addition to the information gathered about participant age, gender, marital status (coded as 'single' or 'living with partner') and how many children they had (coded as 'none' or 'having children'), outcome measures were chosen that would capture the possible intervention effects on different aspects of psychological health, including mental distress, study stress, student burnout, subjective well-being, and mindfulness. We also measured student compliance as indicated by course attendance and self-reported home practice.
Mental distress was measured using the 12-item General Health Questionnaire (GHQ12) [29]. This consisted of questions related to participant mental distress experience in the last two weeks and used four evaluation response categories: 'more than usual' (0), 'same as usual' (1), 'less than usual' (2), and 'much less than usual' (3). The total possible score ranged from 0 (no distress) to 36. The Cronbach's alpha value for our sample was .90. The GHQ12 response categories were further dichotomised, with '0'-'1' evaluations scored as '0' while '2'-'3' evaluations were scored as '1'. A cut-off score of '≥4' indicated a clinically significant level of mental distress [23].
Student burnout was measured using a version of the 15-item Maslach Burnout Inventory (MBI) tailored to measure three dimensions of student burnout, namely: emotional exhaustion (5 items), cynicism (4 items), and study efficacy (6 items) [30]. The items had seven response categories ranging from 'never' (0) to 'always' (6). A summed score was calculated based on a reversal of the efficacy items and evaluated on a scale ranging from 0 (indicating 'no burnout') to 90. The MBI inventory is cross-culturally valid, has good psychometric properties [30], and has been tested on pre-clinical and clinical medical students [31]. In our sample, the Cronbach's alpha value for the sum scale was .90.
Study stress was measured using the 13-item Perceived Medical School Stress (PMSS) scale [32], with one item adapted for cultural reasons [33]. The PMSS assessment has been shown to have adequate predictive validity for mental health problems in medical professionals four years after graduation [34]. In our study, the PMSS was adapted by removing the word 'medical' in all instances of the term 'medical study'. The 13 items had five response categories which ranged from 'strongly disagree' (0) to 'strongly agree' (4), and the total sum score ranged from 0 (indicating 'no stress') to 52. The Cronbach's alpha value for our sample was .79.
Subjective well-being (SWB) was measured using a 4item version of the SWB scale [35]. Previous use of this scale has indicated that is has good psychometric properties and correlates strongly and positively with the Satisfaction With Life Scale [36]. In accordance with generally accepted dimensions of well-being scales [36], the SWB construct consists of a cognitive element (life satisfaction), a positive affect element (happy and strong) and a negative affect element (unhappy and tired). The number of the response categories varied and therefore all items were transformed to a scale ranging from 0-10, using the algorithm: X = (Y-1) × 10/(Z-1), where X is the new score, Y the original score, and Z the number of response categories. Higher scores reflect increased subjective well-being. The Cronbach's alpha value for our sample was .81.
Mindfulness was measured using the Five Facet Mindfulness Questionnaire (FFMQ; 39 items). This questionnaire has been shown to have good psychometric properties [37] and was used in our study to measure five facets of mindfulness. The Norwegian version of the questionnaire was translated using a standard forward-backward process at the University of Bergen and has also been used in a recent Norwegian MBSR study [38]. The first four facets consisted of eight items each, while the fifth had seven items. Each item had five response categories which ranged from 'never or very seldom true' (1) to 'very often or always true' (5). In our sample, the five facets (and corresponding Cronbach's alpha values) were: the ability to a) observe (.78), b) describe (.89), c) act with awareness (.88) together with the ability to be fully present with an attitude of d) non-judgement (.92), and e) non-reactivity (.73) towards what occurs. Suboptimal properties of the non-reactivity facet in a student sample have also been found in previous research [37]. In student populations the FFMQ is positively correlated with meditation experience, openness to experience, emotional intelligence and self-compassion. It is also strongly negatively correlated with psychological symptoms, neuroticism, thought suppression and difficulties in emotional regulation [37]. Higher scores indicate increased mindfulness.
Student compliance measured attendance and selfreported home-based mindfulness practice. Attendance was measured by the number of classes attended (0-7). Mindfulness practice was assessed using four questions: a) 'How often have you practised mindfulness exercises (body-scan, relaxation, yoga, gi gong, tai chi or meditation) in the last four weeks?' (the six response categories ranged from 'never' (0) to 'daily' (5)); b) 'When you practise, how long do you normally practise?' (six response categories which ranged from 0 minutes (0) to >45 minutes ( 5)); c) 'How often have you practised mindful breathing in the last four weeks?' (six response categories which ranged from 'never' (0) to 'daily' (5)), and d) 'How often have you practised being mindful in everyday situations in the last four weeks?' (six response categories which ranged from 'never' (0) to 'daily' (5)). Mindfulness practice was measured as a summed score (ranging from 0 to 20).

Statistical analyses
The success of the randomisation procedure was evaluated by analysing T1 mean score differences between the intervention and control groups using independent sample t-tests and chi-square test for categorical variables. Completer and dropout comparisons were also examined using the same tests. The online questionnaire was constructed in a way that ensured that all items on each page had to be completed before respondents were able to progress to the next page. Instances of missing data were caused by discontinuation of the questionnaire (one student) or a loss of respondents to follow-up (eleven students). Data were missing from the responses of five students in the intervention group and seven in the control group respectively. The last-observation-carried-forward method of imputation was chosen as this is a conservative method used in instances in which there is an equal drop-out rate in the intervention and the control group [39]. Intention-to-treat analyses and per protocol analyses yielded very similar results and we have therefore presented only the former.
Multivariate analyses of covariance (MANCOVA) were applied to the multiple dependent variables measured at T2 (i.e. mental distress, student burnout, study stress, and subjective well-being). Analyses of covariance (ANCOVAs) were then applied. T1 measures were included as covariates because the correlation coefficients between the measurements at T1 and T2 were substantial. The use of covariate control increased the statistical strength of the results by reducing unexplained or error variance. This same approach was used to examine the effect of the intervention on the five facets measuring mindfulness. As gender had not been accounted for by stratified randomisation, this was included as a factor in the MANCOVA analysis in order to estimate its effect on the intervention. Alphalevels were adjusted for multiple testing by applying a Bonferroni correction.
A linear regression analysis was used to test the relationship between MBSR attendance and mindfulness practice and the outcome variables. Multilevel mixed linear regression analyses were conducted to investigate whether MBSR effects depended on the student class (five medicine and five psychology classes as random factors) or the university locations (Oslo and Tromsø as fixed factors). The study instructors varied by university location and these factors therefore coincided. Mediation analyses will be conducted following collection of two-year follow-up data.
Hedges' g was used to calculate the size of the treatment effect by estimating the standardised mean difference in test scores between the intervention and control group (Tables 1 and2). Hedges' g is similar to Cohen's d (with a pooled SD) but has slightly improved precision as the result of the inclusion of a correction factor for small sample sizes. The two effect-sizes are related accorded to the equation g ¼
ffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffi n 1 þn 2 -2 n 1 þn 2 q d , and
the values used for interpreting effect size are 0.2 (small), 0.5 (moderate) and 0.8 (large) [40]. We calculated the Number Needed to Treat (NNT) which was used as a measure to assess the clinical importance of the effect found on mental distress. NNT is defined as the expected number of people that need to receive an intervention rather than the control condition for one additional person to have a specified effect within a given time frame [41].

