METHODS


Participants
A total of n = 840 participants registered online and provided basic demographic information. The final sample consisted of N = 267 participants (31.8% of the 840 participants who initially registered online). Inclusion criteria for the final sample were being ≥18 years of age, not regularly using illegal drugs, not currently undergoing psychotherapeutic or psychopharmacologic treatment, and having completed the assigned exercise and all measurement time points (see Figure 1 for details).
Most participants in the final sample (83%) were women aged 18 to 76 (M = 43.16, SD = 12.10). They were mainly from Germany (66%), Switzerland (29%), and Austria (4%). Participants were highly educated as the majority (60%) held a degree from a university or a university of applied sciences, while 19% held a diploma allowing them to attend an institution of higher education; 19% of the participants had completed vocational training and 2% had completed mandatory school. Furthermore, no differences between the intervention and the control condition were observed with regard to sex ( χ 2 [1,N = 267] = 2.43,p = .119),age (F[1,266] = 2.15,p = .144),education (χ 2 [5,N = 267] = 0.80,p = .977),266] = 0.42,p = .516),or  change beliefs (general: F[1,266] = 0.19,p = .660;instrumental: F[1,266] = 0.03,p = .859). A priori power analyses suggested that a sample size of 277 participants would be needed to detect a small effect (f = .15) with a power of β = .80 in a one-tailed test.

Instruments
The Authentic Happiness Inventory (AHI; Seligman et al., 2005;German version: Proyer et al., 2017) is a self-report instrument for the assessment of well-being. It uses 24 sets of five statements describing one's feelings during the past week (e.g., "I have sorrow in my life" to "My life is filled with joy"). Proyer et al. (2017) report good internal consistency and retest reliability of the AHI and found support for its factorial, convergent, and discriminant validity. Internal consistency in the present study was high at all measurement time points (all α ≥ .93).
The Well-Being Change Beliefs Rating Scale was developed for the purpose of this study in order for the researchers to assess the degree to which participants believe in the malleability of well-being. We wrote items that assessed three different aspects of change beliefs: (i) whether well-being in general is modifiable regardless of whether their own well-being can be influenced; (ii) whether their own well-being can be influenced; and (iii) whether they knew how to change their well-being. On a conceptual level, the latter aspect of change beliefs is closely related to having an internal locus of control, and high well-being-related self-efficacy (Farnier et al., 2021). These three questions were asked for six different aspects of well-being based on Seligman's (2011) well-being theory: satisfaction with one's life in general; the experience of fun, joy, and pleasure; spending time on activities that challenge and allow one to losing oneself in them; having more or deeper relationships with other people; having a sense of meaning and purpose in life; and being successful and attaining one's goals. Each question was rated on a Likert-style scale ranging from 1 (does not apply at all) to 10 (applies completely).
For examining the structure of these items, we randomly split the initial sample (n = 721) in half and conducted a principal component analysis with the first half of the sample (n = 360), and a confirmatory factor analysis with the second half of the sample (n = 361). For determining upon the number of components in the principal component analysis, we conducted a parallel analysis. Results suggested the retention of two factors (the first five empirical Eigenvalues were 7.83, 2.08, 1.31, 1.13, 0.96; the Eigenvalues of random data were 1. 49, 1.38, 1.32, 1.26, 1.21). Results from principal component analyses extracting two and three (Promax rotated 1 ) factors suggested that the questions regarding whether well-being can be changed in general (i) and whether they can change their well-being (ii) could not be separated and that the two-factor solution provided a better fit to the data in terms of simple structure (i.e., all items had the highest loading on the intended factor) and interpretability. Therefore, we extracted two factors, jointly explaining 60.0% of the variance in the items. The 12 items assessing whether well-being can be changed in general (i) and whether participants think they can change their well-being (ii) loaded on the first factor, named general change beliefs (explaining 31% of the variance). The six items assessing whether participants know how to change their well-being (iii) loaded onto the second factor, named instrumental change beliefs (explaining 24% of the variance).
With the second part of the sample, we conducted a confirmatory factor analysis (using lavaan: Rosseel, 2012) and estimated the fit of the data to one-to three-factorial models (using a robust weighted least squares estimator; WLSMV). Results suggested a better fit of the data to the two-factorial model χ ). Therefore, we decided to retain the more parsimonious two-factorial model.
Subsequently, we computed scores for general and instrumental change beliefs by averaging the respective items. The two scores were positively related but not redundant, r[265] = .59, p < .001. Internal consistencies were high for both general and instrumental change beliefs (α = .92/.92). Further, the scale showed robust relationships to well-being, as expected and as shown for similar scales (Farnier et al., 2021): Correlations with well-being at pretest were r = .52 and .53 for general and instrumental change beliefs.
Process questions: We asked participants during the posttest whether they had completed the assigned exercise (completion: "No" [these participants were excluded], "Yes but I did less than instructed" = 0, "Yes, as instructed" and "Yes, I did more than instructed" = 1); how much time in minutes they invested throughout the week (effort); how much they liked the exercise (liking: ranging from 1 = very bad to 7 = very good); whether they perceived a benefit from the exercise (benefit: ranging from 1 = not at all to 5 = very much); and whether the exercise was easy to complete (easiness: ranging from 1 = not at all to 5 = very much). Furthermore, at every follow-up, we assessed whether the participants continued the exercise voluntarily beyond the instructed time period (continuation: 0 = "No," 1 = "Yes").

Procedure
The local ethics committee approved the study before it was launched. The study was conducted online using a website we created for the purpose of running intervention studies. The study was advertised through online forums (on diverse topics, such as well-being, health, and psychology studies), mailing lists (i.e., mailing lists of people who were interested in participating in psychological experiments and mailing lists of psychology students), and press releases (e.g., university press releases on earlier studies that also included an invitation to participate in this study). Participants were not aware of the existence of different conditions. After providing their informed consent, registering, and sharing basic demographic information, participants could decide when to start the intervention themselves. As soon as they decided to start, they completed a pretest (AHI and Well-Being Change Beliefs Rating Scale), were randomly assigned to either of the two conditions (i.e., "three good things" or "early childhood memories") based on an automatic algorithm, and received their exercise assignment with the instruction to complete it every day for 1 week. After the intervention week, as well as at follow-up sessions 2, 4, and 12 weeks after the intervention, participants were reminded via email to return to the website to complete the questionnaires (AHI and process questions). After completion of the program, participants received automatically generated feedback on their questionnaire results as a reward for their participation.

Data analysis
For the main analyses, we only analyzed data from the final sample, that is, those participants who completed the assigned exercise and all measurement time points. We used R (Version 4.1.0; R Core Team, 2021) and the R packages dplyr (Version 1.0.7; Wickham et al., 2021), psych (Version 2.1.6; Revelle, 2021), lme4 (Version 1.1-27.1; Bates et al., 2015), and lmerTest (Version 3.1-3; Kuznetsova et al., 2017).

