MATERIALS AND METHODS


Design, Setting, and Procedure
This prospective study was conducted in a heterogeneous sample of 779 employees from 22 large companies in Norway as part of a process evaluation of an ongoing randomized controlled trial in the WIRUS project (Workplace Interventions preventing Risky alcohol Use and Sick leave). For the process evaluation, the RE-AIM concepts were applied-where reach is one of the evaluation categories. To conduct the process evaluation, a standardized questionnaire was filled out by OHS personnel.
First, employees were invited to participate in a digital alcohol screening survey. Second, employees who were classified as risky drinkers (based on their screening responses) were invited by their OHS to attend a health examination, where they were randomized into an alcohol prevention intervention (or control) condition. During the health examination, OHS personnel recorded whether or not employees consented to be randomized. For this study, consent to randomization defined willingness to participate in an alcohol prevention interventions.

Data Collection and Sample
In collaboration with the addiction competence environment KoRus Stavanger and the University of Stavanger, companies were recruited through three OHS in Norway. Twenty-two companies agreed to participate and provided e-mail addresses for all their employees. Included companies represented a variety of sectors, work divisions and geographical locations. The alcohol screening survey was distributed to all employees in the 22 companies (n = 30,811). A total of 8,542 employees consented to participate (response rate = 27.7%), and 6 958 completed the alcohol screening by responding on all relevant items. Based on having a sum score of eight or higher on the Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test (AUDIT) (7,43), 800 risky drinkers were identified (11.5% of employees who completed the alcohol screening). Sample characteristics of the screening study are described in more detail elsewhere (6,16,(44)(45)(46)(47)(48). Twenty-one risky drinkers failed to report adequate contact information. Hence, 779 risky drinking employees were contacted by OHS and included in this study. The recruitment process for this study is depicted in Figure 1.
Risky drinkers (N = 779) were invited to a general health examination by the OHS and were informed about further potential participation in an alcohol prevention intervention. Invitations were made by e-mail and telephone, based on contact information provided by employees in the screening survey. Up to two reminders were sent in instances where employees did not respond to the OHS' initial invitation. In most cases, attending the health examination involved leaving the workplace and traveling some distance to the OHS facilities. Date and time for the examination were scheduled in concert between the employee and OHS.
The health examination lasted for ∼30 min. After having completed the examination, employees were informed about the randomized controlled trial and asked whether they were willing to be randomized into one out of three groups: (i) a face-to-face brief intervention based on motivational interviewing plus an alcohol information booklet; (ii) an eHealth intervention delivered on a digital platform, plus an alcohol information booklet; or (iii) a control condition where they received only the alcohol information booklet. The face-to-face intervention consisted of two motivational interviewing sessions with OHS personnel (49). The digital eHealth intervention started with an alcohol screening and feedback component, followed by an intensive self-help program consisting of 62 online sessions, distributed across a period of 6 months (50,51). The alcohol information booklet contained general information about physiological effects of alcohol intake (52).
Individual-level criteria for being included in the study were the following: (i) age 16-72; (ii) status as employee (blue, white or pink collar worker, or manager, i.e., salaried person); (iii) employed in a company served by an OHS unit enrolled in the WIRUS project, regardless of sector, work division or geographical region; (iv) basic understanding of the Norwegian language; and (v) completed the screening survey and scored eight or higher on the AUDIT scale (i.e., being classified as a risky drinker). Data were collected between 2014 and 2020.
The mean age for included employees was 40.3 years (SD = 12.6 years). The gender distribution was quite balanced (48.9% males, 51.1% females). The majority had attained a university or college education (72.1%). Characteristics of the study sample are presented in Table 1.  

Measures
In line with earlier studies on willingness to participate in alcohol prevention interventions (35)(36)(37)(38), a set of sociodemographic and alcohol-related variables was included as potential correlates.
Additionally, work-related variables were included due to the target population being employed and that alcohol prevention interventions were delivered in an occupational health setting.
A set of lifestyle/daily activity variables was included as a result of the potential importance of contextual factors outside the workplace. An overview of included potential correlates is presented in Table 2.

Willingness to Participate (Outcome)
Employees were coded as either willing (1) or unwilling (0) to participate in an alcohol prevention intervention. Willing employees fulfilled the following criteria: (i) responded positively to the invitation from the OHS; (ii) attended the health examination; and (iii) agreed to be randomized into an alcohol prevention or control condition.

Sociodemographic Variables
The following sociodemographic variables were measured: Age (years); gender (male; female); educational attainment (primary/secondary; university/college); marital status (unmarried; married); living status (living alone; living with others); having children (yes; no), having children in the household (yes; no); and yearly household income [in 1000 Norwegian kroner (NOK)].

Alcohol-Related Variables
Alcohol use and consequences were measured with the 10-item Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test (AUDIT) (7,43). Each item was scored 0-4, resulting in a sum score ranging from 0 to 40 (higher score indicated higher consumption/more severe consequences). Drinking attitudes were measured with seven items from the Drinking Norms Scale (DNS) (53). Each item was scored on a four-point Likert scale, and a mean score was calculated (higher score indicated more liberal attitudes toward drinking in general and work-related drinking in particular). 

Analysis
The proportion (percentage) of risky drinkers who was willing to participate in an alcohol prevention intervention was assessed. Correlates for willingness to participate were analyzed by comparing those who were willing to participate with those who were eligible but unwilling to participate, based on sociodemographic, alcohol-related, work-related, and lifestyle/daily activity variables (see Table 2). First, a series of unadjusted analyses was conducted (independent samples t-tests with Cohen's d for continuous correlates, and chi square tests of independence with phi coefficients (φ; 2 × 2 tables), or Cramer's V (larger tables) for categorical correlates). Second, correlates demonstrating associations with willingness to participate at p < 0.30 were included in an adjusted binary logistic regression analysis (59). All analyses were performed with IBM SPSS version 27. Significant results were defined as p < 0.05.

Ethics
Respondents were treated in accordance with the World Medical Association's Declaration of Helsinki (60), and systematic efforts were made to ensure their dignity, integrity, right to selfdetermination, privacy, and confidentiality. At three time points (screening, invitation from the OHS, and health examination), participants were thoroughly informed about the study's aim and assured that participation was voluntary. Participants were informed that they had the right to withdraw from the study at any given time. Written informed consent was collected from all participants. The study was approved by the Regional Committee for Medical and Health Research in Norway (REK; reference number 2014/647).

