Methods


Background
The focus of the study was on women aged 50 and older, with private insurance, living in Santiago. On the one hand, the intervention was administered to those with private insurance because we could observe the longitudinal behavior of these individuals using claims data. Because of data limitations, it was not possible to do so for women with public insurance (80% of the population). An in-depth analysis of the related implications is provided in the Discussion section. On the other hand, approximately 50% of the population lives in Santiago, and it has an abundant supply of mammography machines, thus ruling out a lack of access as a cause of low rates. The large population and high level of access make it a suitable environment to test the behavioral economic interventions.
According to the Chilean Socioeconomic Characterization Survey 2017, 10 only 35% of women aged 50 and older had a mammogram that year, compared with 51% of privately insured women. This shows there is still room for improvement.
In the Chilean health system, after getting a prescription from their doctors, women can choose between 2 options for obtaining a mammogram:
1. The "copay" option. Women use their private insurance coverage to pay for this mammogram, with a copay (typically approximately US $20). Approximately 90% of the women who had mammograms used this option. Although it is available to all public, those without private insurance coverage must make the full payment. 2. The "free" mammogram option. Women can receive a free preventive-care mammogram but only at certain clinics designated by the insurance company. Fewer than 10% of women who have ever had a mammogram in our data have used this option. Because the free mammogram is aimed at overall public welfare and is underused, this is the option that we focus on.

Data
The data used in this study were provided by the Superintendence of Health (the government agency that regulates the private health insurance market) and include all insurance claim records from all private insurance firms in Chile. Approximately 17% of the population has private health insurance, and its data provide the information we need (any mammogram from 2007 onward, age, copayments for mammography screening) and identify the primary care doctor and visits made to them.
The main data set consists of women who have not had a mammogram for at least 24 months, lived in Santiago, and were 50 years old or older (with the oldest woman in the sample being 61 years old). It totaled 42 233 women in June 2015.
Because the intervention (a mail campaign) required an address, which could only be obtained from the insurance company, this further limited the sample. Only 2 large insurance companies were willing to share this information with the Superintendence of Health, leaving a sample of 15 626 (37% of the Chilean private insurance market). Of these, 12 000 women were randomly chosen, with half being assigned to the treatment group.
The treatment group was sent 1 mailer. Within that group, women were divided into 8 equal-sized groups, in a nested 2 3 2 3 2 block design (Fig. 1 1, before treatment, there are no differences between the treatment group and the control group in age or previous mammograms, total health expenditure, or use of health services.

Experimental Strategy
Each type of treatment (message) was designed to address one or more hypothesized barriers. To properly identify these barriers, a series of focus group interviews were conducted to develop and refine the behavioral interventions used. Selected women were recruited via telephone and received a US $50 incentive (gift card). These women were subsequently excluded from the mailer campaign. There were 4 focus groups with 8 participants each and followed a semistructured protocol based on findings from Puschel et al. 11 The finalized barriers were as follows:
Hypothesized barrier 1: information avoidance This refers to situations in which a person actively chooses not to obtain knowledge that is freely available via inattention, confirmation bias, and even physical avoidance. 21 There could be immediate benefits if being reminded of the possibility of having breast cancer causes undesirable psychological consequences. Behavioral economics finds that reminders can help address information problems in a variety of contexts. [22][23][24] Thus, the base intervention was a reminder of mammograms. Hypothesized barrier 2: procrastination This concerns self-control and intertemporal decision making. People often have "present-biased" preferences and procrastinate on tasks that involve immediate costs but delayed benefits. 14 For example, women intend to obtain a mammogram soon, but the immediate inconvenience can lead to it constantly being put off, especially because the test has delayed and possibly uncertain benefits. Behavioral economics research has shown that deadlines can help overcome procrastination, and a lottery can take advantage of people's tendency to overweigh small probabilities in making decisions. 25 Thus, half of the mailers gave a deadline with a lottery of Ch $1 million (US $1587) for all women who had mammograms before that date.
Hypothesized barrier 3: affect heuristic This is related to the problem of fear of detection or of the test. This includes situations when emotions lead to polarized thinking, thereby leading to all-or-nothing choices. This message includes information about how mammograms save lives (and therefore the importance of detection against the fear of finding out one has cancer). A physician recommendation can increase compliance rates for mammography in Chile. 19,26 To study the importance of this behavioral tendency on this barrier, half of the mailers contained a photograph of a physician in a white laboratory coat and an "official endorsement" from the Chilean Ministry of Health. This intervention appeals to the behavioral economic heuristic of deferring to authority, 27 or "expert power." 28 Moreover, we include information regarding how the breast cancer treatment saves lives (and therefore the importance of detection) was included. Essentially, the objective is to lower the level of fear or risk perception of the test or results, with an intention to change individual judgments about the test. Hypothesized barrier 4: problems from structural barriers and complexity There are complex structural barriers to accessing the free mammogram. This complexity of the process (having to first make and attend a doctor's visit, then finding and choosing a clinic, and making and attending an appointment there) could be overwhelming, leading to the process being delayed or abandoned. This issue is known as "decision fatigue" 16 and Note. There were 3 different messages (simplified choice set, expert recommendation, and deadline with lottery incentive) to address different hypothesized barriers.
We combined these in a nested 2 3 2 3 2 block design, which resulted in 8 eight types of letters and, consequently, 8 groups within the treatment group.
illustrates the humans' bounded rationality. The elements that would be influencing to perceive this way are the fact that a woman must make a physician appointment first (to get a prescription to mammography), must choose the clinic where to receive screening, and make all steps compatible with her time and budget constraints. To address this, the message should include preprinted personalized maps and directions to local free mammography clinics to reduce the complexity and decision making. Half of the mailers included this information.
Owing to the randomization, a simple comparison of means across intervention and control 29 arms after treatment was done to test the treatment effectiveness (Because each message is assigned orthogonally to all others, it was designed to not have interactive effects, although there could be random but rare contact between women who received different messages. Therefore, it would not be a source of bias.). Outcomes from the field experiment were monitored 5 months after the intervention letters were mailed. To develop a better understanding of the effects of the different messages, we ran several regressions to control for all possible interactions in a single equation (Appendix C and Table C1 in Supplemental Materials found at https://doi.org/10.1 016/j.jval.2021.04.1275). Finally, not all mailers were successfully sent because of women moving (Fig. A1 in Supplemental Materials found at https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jval.2021.04.1275). For example, women may have moved between the time they were selected into the treatment groups and the time the letter was delivered. We addressed the imperfect compliance in Appendix D (in Supplemental Materials found at https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jval.2 021.04.1275), using an instrumental variable (IV) approach in which the first stage of the regression measured if the letter was delivered. 29 

Ethics
All participants gave their written informed consent. The ethics committee of Social Sciences and Humanities of the School of Philosophy and Humanities of the University of Chile approved the study protocol on December 16, 2014.

