Methods
The full protocol of this study has been published elsewhere 37 ; most relevant details of study procedures are described below.

Participants
Clinically stable adults with schizophrenia were recruited from multiple sites: San Francisco VA Medical Center (SFVAMC), University of Minnesota (UMN), University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA), Los Angeles VA Hospital (LAVA) and Rush University. Study participants met DSM-V criteria for a diagnosis of schizophrenia (assessed using the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV; SCID-P 38 ), were between 18 and 65 years of age, had an estimated IQ ≥ 70 based on the Wechsler Test of Adult Reading (WTAR 39 ), were clinically stable for 8 weeks prior to consent, had no more than a moderate severity rating on hallucinations and unusual thought content (a score of ≤4 on the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale; PANSS 40 ), and no active suicidal ideation with specific plan and intent (measured by the Columbia-Suicide Severity Rating Scale; C-SSRS 41 ). Finally, participants had been maintained on a stable treatment of no more than 2 antipsychotics and/or other concomitant psychotropic treatment for at least 6 weeks prior to consent.

Study Design
Institutional review board approval was obtained at the coordinating center (WIRB Pro Number 20141695; ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT02246426) and at each trial site. All participants signed an informed consent form prior to participation in the study.
Eligible participants completed baseline assessments in the lab/clinic and were then randomly assigned to either experimental (SocialVille) or active control (casual games) training conditions (see below). Random allocation was performed using stratification by gender, education (<13 y, >13 y), and age (18-40 y, 41-65 y) to each group at each site with an allocation ratio of 1:1. To minimize the imbalance between the number of participants in each group over these factors, we employed a minimization method 42 of adaptive stratification.
Participants were loaned a laptop and were asked to complete training from home for 3-5 times/wk, for a total of 40   33,37 ). It is composed of 27 unique exercises, which collectively target visual and vocal affect perception, social cue perception, ToM, self-referential style, and empathy. Training exercises are built using similar mechanisms to those of general cognitive training, but employ socially relevant stimuli, designed to improve processing speed and accuracy in the brain systems dedicated to the processing of social information. 32 Active Control Training Program. We used 13 conventional, progressive, and commercially available computer games, which were shown to provide face-valid cognitive stimulation and were rated E (for everyone) by the Entertainment Software Rating Board (ESRB). Games have been embedded in the Posit Science training portal to help maintain blinding and control for potential placebo effects, as all participants underwent the same procedure. In addition, this type of control helped match expectation-based influences on performance as well as the experimental program in overall program use intensity, staff interaction, reward, and overall engagement. Importantly, these games did not have any social content or individualized progression.

Outcome Measures
Primary Outcome Measures. We used a co-primary outcome measure, composed of an SC composite, and a functional capacity measure. The a priori co-primary SC outcome measure was a composite score of 6 SC assessments, collectively assessing facial emotion recognition (The Penn Emotional Recognition Test, ER40 43 ), prosody identification (The Prosody Identification Test, PROID 44 ), immediate and delayed memory for faces (the Penn Faces Memory Test, PFMT), 43 the Mayer-Salovey-Caruso Emotional Intelligence Test (MSCEIT 45 ) managing emotions subscale and the Empathic Accuracy (EA)Task. 46 The a priori functional capacity outcome measure was the UCSD Performance-based Skills Assessment (UPSA-2), 47 which assesses skills in 5 areas: household chores, communication, finance, transportation, and planning recreational activities.
Secondary Outcome Measures. In addition to the primary outcomes, we assessed clinical status and symptom severity using the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS), 40 and functioning using the Virtual Reality Functional Capacity Assessment Tool (VRFCAT 48 ), a virtual reality (VR) measure mimicking a real-life scenario of a shopping trip. Functioning was further assessed using the Global Functioning Scale: Social and Role (GFS 49,50 ), Social Functioning Scale (SFS 51 ), an abbreviated version of the Quality of Life Scale (QLS 52 ), and the Specific Levels of Functioning Scale (SLOF 53 ).
SC was assessed using additional measures of facial affect perception (the Morphed Faces Task), 54 social perception (The Awareness of Social Inference Test, Part 3 [TASIT]) 55 ; ToM (the Faux Pas Recognition Test 56,57 ), memory for the source of items (The Source Memory Test 58 ), and attributional style (The Ambiguous Intentions Hostility Questionnaire, AIHQ 59 ).
Finally, we assessed motivation, which has been found to be a critical mediator between SC and function in schizophrenia, 60 using both the Temporal Experience of Pleasure Scale (TEPS 61 ) and the Behavioral Inhibition/ Behavioral Activation Scale (BIS/BAS 62 ), which assesses sensitivity to anticipated punishment or reward.

Data Analysis
Power calculations are reported elsewhere. 37 Primary Analysis. Groups were compared on all baseline measures. Differences between groups were tested via Mann-Whitney U tests (for continuous variables) or Pearson chi-square tests (for categorical variables). Raw scores of the 6 primary SC outcomes were first converted into Z-scores, and then summed and normalized (mean of 100, SD of 15).
Since there were group differences on the primary outcomes at baseline, we implemented a propensity score framework based on demographic and primary outcomes to compare trajectories of change over time. 63,64 This process effectively creates a matched sample. 65 To test whether groups differed in change over time, data were analyzed according to the intent-to-treat (ITT) principle, in which all subjects randomized into either the treatment or control group were included in the analysis. This was accomplished via a linear mixedeffects model (LMM), where missing data was handled via full information maximum likelihood (FIML). FIML is a "gold standard" approach to handling missing data, assuming that data is missing at random (MAR). To examine whether this assumption may have been met, prior to running the primary analysis, we examined patterns of missing data via pattern-mixture models. 66 The LMM included fixed effects of time, group, and a group × time interaction, with random intercepts of subject and site, as well as a random slope of time. Statistical significance was assessed at a 2-sided P-value of P < .05. We applied a Bonferroni adjustment to correct for multiple comparisons. Thus,

Online Social Cognition Training in Schizophrenia
the threshold for statistical significance was set at .05/2 = .025.

